what do you think is more of a public
health hazard a walk in the park or
handling raw meat the great French
tradition of steak tartare which is
still served in restaurants in France to
this day
consisting of raw beef served with a raw
egg on top of it
both major sources of illness major
sources of contamination - things that
no doctor would ever recommend you eat
even once being handled by the staff I
mean it's a danger to the people work in
the kitchen it's a danger to the
customer it's a danger to the public at
large it's increasing the disease burden
on society okay let me just give you let
me just give you one more statistic here
every year the number of people killed
by foodborne illness four hundred and
twenty thousand
out of the four hundred and twenty
thousand people who die from foodborne
illness every year 125,000 of them are
under the age of five that that could be
a priority that could be a priority for
democracies in the Western world that
could be a priority for France could be
a priority for humanitarian aid to
third-world countries okay and it's not
what's a priority what's going on right
now the police in Paris France are doing
the only thing they know how to do
they're using the same methods that they
use to repress and track people who
participate in public demonstrations the
ultimate fundamental question we have to
ask is not is this particular decision
right or wrong the question is who
decides did any of you any of you people
in my audience that any of you
participate in a debate did any of you
participate in a vote was there a
referendum about whether or not people
should be deprived of their right to
take a walk in the park this episode
reflects very badly on the state of
democracy in the Western world whether
it be France Italy Spain the United
States or Canada one of the peculiar
asymmetries between the left wing and
the right wing in the year 2020 in the
english-speaking world is the attitude
toward factual knowledge as such I
participated in several online debates
in which I was reviled and in one case
actually kicked out simply because I
insisted on facts and statistics
mattering in the debate and this made me
allegedly you know right-wing the house
I was conservative because I I cared
about the numbers you know the word
conservative means different things to
different people
if you live in a country where the
Constitution itself is liberal then
defending that Constitution and adhering
to the principles that Constitution will
be perceived as conservative we're
living through a very strange period of
time in which the government of France
has deprived people of the right to take
a walk in the park
and the police are in quite a draconian
fashion stopping arresting and fining
people issuing tickets to people to find
them if they dare to go for a walk in
the park there is footage of the police
using drones so these are remotely
controlled robotic flying machines
miniature helicopters very much
resembling a toy helicopter to chase
down identify announce to people that
they're in violation the law and
ultimately then police on foot can find
these people and arrest them you
shouldn't listen and this is this is on
the assumption that there's scientific
evidence that walking in the park is a
danger to the public regardless of who
you are
Arlis of whether you are sick or healed
now really briefly I used to live in
Taiwan and one of the major differences
between policy and Taiwan and policy and
France was that individual people who
actually had coronavirus and also some
individual people who returned to Taiwan
from Wuhan China with a fever where they
didn't know that they had corner virus
yet but they did some initial tests they
say okay you came back from that part of
China you seem to have a fever
individual people were robbed of their
right to walk in the park right they
were ordered to remain confined to their
apartments and live within certain you
know limitations and in many cases
actually those people later were freed
when the test results came back showing
that they didn't have coronavirus but
some people just for a couple of days
well the tests were being done character
parts that there's a rationale there
right there's there's some principle
that makes sense but the principle being
followed
I think irrationally I think without any
public democratic debate in France
raises a lot of really fundamental
pragmatic questions I'm gonna read you
something here from a bunch of guys
called the World Health Organization
every year 600 million people become
seriously ill due to foodborne parasites
foodborne bacteria food borne diseases
and toxins
okay foodborne illness as one category
most of you watching this video will
know the prime suspect here is meat and
the prime suspect of course is raw meat
handling raw meat whether it's raw beef
or raw chicken is very very dangerous
yes cooked meat is also bad for your
health but there's really no comparison
here in Canada every year we have funny
stories but people getting seriously ill
from eating undercooked bear meat or
once in a while some idiot thinks they
can eat you know wild game completely
raw and uncooked
you can get very very sick and you can
die and in their kitchens people handle
raw meat
and they have a young child like a
toddler running around you might pick up
and hug the child the child needs help
you can communicate diseases through
touching raw meat and touching other
people okay what do you think is more of
a public health hazard a walk in the
park or handling raw meat which do you
think is more deserving of draconian
measures to take away your freedom
the great French tradition of steak
tartare which is still served in
restaurants in France to this day
consisting of raw beef served with a raw
egg on top of it
both major sources of illness major
sources of contamination to things that
no doctor would ever recommend you eat
even once being handled by the staff I
mean it's a danger to the people work in
the kitchen it's a danger to the
customer it's a danger to the public at
large it's increasing the disease burden
on society okay let me just give you let
me just give you one more statistic here
every year the number of people killed
by foodborne illness four hundred and
twenty thousand that number was accurate
as of 2015 so we'll have slightly
increased due to world population growth
obviously we're inching towards half a
million deaths per year but the
statistic here from the ratio four
hundred twenty thousand right and of
those four hundred twenty thousand
disproportionally 125,000 are children
and I have a memory of this myself my
father once fed me rotten beef he made
beef into burgers I was a small child
that wasn't vegan or vegetarian yet and
I could tell from the taste of it it was
off that that strange fizzing quality I
tasted you know had a peculiar taste of
me thirty Connor and my father just
bullied me into eating it my mother was
away that day
was just the two of us in the kitchen
basically and my father basically said
look you're gonna shut up and eat this
meat it's gonna be good enough for you
because he didn't want to cook anything
else and he hated himself too and I got
seriously seriously ill it really you
know I was really stricken whereas my
father was barely affected by it at all
I think just partly due to size and
robustness eating meat that's gone bad
or meet this contaminating it will it
will have a more devastating effect on a
child than it will wanna on a large
adult it's my unscientific opinion but
whether or not that's my my mere
speculation out of the four hundred and
twenty thousand people who die from
foodborne illness every year 125,000 of
them are under the age of five that that
could be a priority that could be a
priority for democracies in the Western
world that could be a priority for
France could be a priority for
humanitarian aid to third-world
countries okay and it's not what's a
priority what's going on right now the
police in Paris France are doing the
only thing they know how to do I
recognize that they're trying to help
but they're using the same methods that
they use to repress and track people who
participate in public demonstrations
right these are the same drones that are
recording the faces of who participates
is who participates in an anti-war March
or who participated in the yellow vest
protests right these the same methods of
public repression this is the same
police state this is all they know how
to do if you ask the cops to solve the
problem this is what they don't want to
do force you to leave the park force you
to go home chase you down give you a
ticket okay
this whole hilarious episode of how
Western democracies responded to
coronavirus which was you know at first
too little and then too much but too
late you know let me tell you something
I flew in from Taiwan to Vancouver at
the time when the authorities in Canada
should have had really serious screening
for me and everyone else on that
airplane
coming over from China to Canada at the
Taiwanese side they had all the safety
measures in place including taking my
temperature and really checking be
worldly when we arrived in Canada not a
goddamn thing there was no interest
there was no process there was no
procedure I wasn't even asked one
question verbally and nobody took my
temperature with any if there was no
interest right and then what a few weeks
later closed every coffee shop closed
every business and I mean France has
taken this next step of denying you even
the right to take a walk in the park
okay ultimately this disease is
transmitted the same way as the common
cold
buying a slice of pizza from a
restaurant is a high-risk activity all
right someone could have sneezed on that
pizza before you bought it you didn't
see whether it's someone working in the
kitchen or another customer having an
open-air salad bar or any customer could
sneeze on it before you to do it that's
a high risk risk activity okay but the
policy response taking away your civil
rights and the extension of police
powers and so what's going on now it's
neither based on scientific guidelines
nor on any kind of sound democratic
process and you know I'm not a fan of
the communist government of China to see
who I meet so I'm really not that big a
fan of the government in Japan or Taiwan
either this episode reflects very badly
on the state of democracy in the Western
world whether it be France Italy Spain
the United States or Canada ultimate
question in a democracy is not of
whether a given decision is right or
wrong I admit it's hard to know the
technical details of how a disease
spreads and what should be a public
health priority you know is raw meat
like you know steak tartare really more
of a threat than no people walking in
the park during an update these
questions
I admit article the ultimate fundamental
question we have to ask is not is this
particular decision right or wrong the
question is
who decides did any of you any of you
people in my audience did any of you
participate in a debate did any of you
participate in a vote was there a
referendum about whether or not people
should be deprived of their right to
take a walk in the park these things
become normal through custom and that's
why unquestioned belief in cultural
customs is so dangerous and that's why I
have to urge you to question and
challenge customs in your own culture
like French people buying and eating raw
meat with a raw egg on it and calling it
stick tartare or now the evolving
culture of the control of public
behavior by the government through these
repressive means which is justified in
terms of public health and safety
concerns but not so easily justified in
terms of this the science in terms of
how this disease spreads how breasts
each of us individually or all of us
collectively could take responsibility
[Music]